# Overview of the Design Thinking Process
Design thinking is iterative and non-linear. Phases can run in parallel and also contribute to the value generated by other phases. We may prototype a solution and that can allow us to better devise other solutions. We may test a solution and that may help us to better empathize with the customer.

## Empathize
Put yourself in the customer's shoes and understand the problem they face. Consult with experts when it is a domain that you are not very familiar with.

## Determine the problem
After collecting information, we define the problem. We try to understand the deeper issue rather than the issues that arise from that parent problem.

## Generate ideas
Devise solutions to the problem. Think out of the box. Be ambitious and then filter out the ones that are not feasible.

## Build prototypes
Experiment with prototypes of the solutions - there is no "correct" implementation of a product or service. The only solutions that matter are the ones that deliver value to the customer - reject prototypes based on feedback and customer experience.

## Test rigorously
Here we refine the superior prototype chosen in the previous phase into the final result. We test this solution and modify it to deliver even more value.

## Design thinking in business
Businesses can thrive when they use design thinking. The company resources will be used in creating products and services that provide value to customers and thus bring in revenue. This efficient generation of revenue is then the driving force for other more expensive ventures that can then provide even more value for customers - leading to more revenue, rinse and repeat.
