# Earned Value Method
This method helps us to indicate to others the progress of a project. We integrate the scope, time and costs to give a metric which tells stakeholders the value that has been generated by the project so far.

We determine the budgeted cost of the performed work and compare this value to the actual cost of the work. The terms involved in the calculation are:
- planned value (PV) - the budgeted cost for the tasks planned at the time of planning
- earned value (EV) - the sum of the entire budgeted cost of the performed work at the time of planning
- actual cost (AC) - the actual cost of the performed work at the time of planning
- cost variance (CV) - the difference between the actual cost of the performed work compared to the project budget (CV=EV-AC)
- schedule variance (SV) - the difference between the achieved progress considering the project schedule (SV=EV-PV)
- cost performance index (CPI) - the ratio of the earned value to the actual cost:
$$\text{CPI}=\frac{\text{EV}}{\text{AC}}$$
- schedule performance index (SPI) - the ratio of the earned value to the project schedule:
$$\text{SPI}=\frac{\text{EV}}{\text{PV}}$$

The project is on schedule if the SPI is 1 and is advancing further than expected if the SPI is greater than 1.
The project is operating within the budget if the CPI is 1 and is very cost-effective if the CPI is greater than 1.

The Estimate at Completion (EAC) is found by dividing the original budget by the CPI:
$$\text{EAC}=\frac{\text{BAC}}{\text{CPI}}$$

## Earned value report
The earned value report tells us:
- chronogram variance - are we on or behind schedule?
- SPI - are we efficiently using the time?
- EAC - when do we expect to finish the project?
- CV - are we on track with the budget?
- CPI - are we efficiently using the resources?
- EAC - how much will the project cost in its entirety?

## What to consider
- What have we done and how much did it cost?
- What work have we actually completed compared to what was planned?
- What costs have we actually incurred compared to what was planned?
- The done work must exceed the planned work in order for the project to be on track
- The actual incurred cost must not exceed the planned incurred cost in order for the project to be considered as cost-effective

A project can be on track in terms of cost but not in terms of schedule and vice versa. Some projects might require us to either speed up the work or save on the costs. Sometimes it is feasible to expend more resources in order to increase the rate of work completion e.g. by hiring a contract worker to ease the work load when the team members of that specific expertise are currently overwhelmed with work.
